Can you give us a little bit more detail about what the performances...
The Hanukkah plays in the reform, what they were about?
Well I did two of those, Alice and Menorah Land, with many years in between,
and of course the first cast had already grown up, so I had to get the next.
Right. So what was Alice and Menorah Land? How did you go about organising that?
Well I just auditioned the children.
And then did you write the play or did you write the script?
No, it was given to me.
Who did that then?
Well the reform rabbi, he had it.
Was it children or adults?
No, children.
Just children?
And were there any stage people helping out as well?
Yes, we had to have eight candles large enough to conceal the children.
So I was going through the halls one day, you know the house of Fraser,
and in the window, it was just before Christmas, so I saw these big candles.
So I thought, well I don't lose anything, so I went in, asked to see the display manager,
I said, can I borrow those? And he said yes.
How they were transported, I don't know.
And the next time, many years later, when I produced the play again,
and fortunately the father of one of the children had a shop, a furniture shop,
and he sold linoleum. So we have these big rolls of miloaneum,
and we had orange paper on top for the lit candle, and that concealed the children.
So did the children appear or what happened?
Well I had to use the candles so that they sort of wove in and out.
Do you know what the third Hanukkah play was about?
Two of those, and the other one, it started with a boy and girl playing with a chemistry set,
and all of a sudden it explodes. They found themselves in the land of
the Maccabeans and the Greeks, and they told the story of Hanukkah was told.
I can't remember what it was about. I know that the leading girl also did a dance,
which I choreographed, and I had eight little girls. Among them was my little girl,
who was what, about six at that time. So I did a little dance for the eight candles as well.
So was this part of a service or was it an extra, or how did it fit into the synagogue's calendar?
No, this was just part of the celebration of Hanukkah for them.
Did each show go on once, yes?
Yes. And then the children doing the experiment in the beginning,
they were at the side of the stage watching all the story, and then they came back into the,
with their chemistry set at the end.